So let's do the final post format which is the Gallery Post Format.
So let's search for "post format gallery".
And we have a post from a gallery post. And there's another one,
it used to test a certain plugin Jetpack. And we don't have to support this plugin So let's keep this one.
And let's open it.
As you can see we have a gellery.
And we need also go to the Dashboard and Posts and search for "gallery".
And edit it using the classic editor.
So when you create a gallery using the classic editor, WordPress will create a gallery shortcode. However using
the Gutenberg editor galleries are created differently, shortcodes are not used in Gutenberg.
So in this lecture we will see both ways, how to support both ways in the post formats.
Right?
So let's start by the the classic editor. In the classic editor as we mentioned we can create galleries
and WordPress will add shortcodes.
And we have a function that is called get_post_gallery() that will get the first gallery in your post,
if you have multiple galleries. And will return "false" if you don't have any galleries.
So what we're gonna do is instead of displaying the post thumbnail here, we will display a slider
that will contain all the images in the gallery.
And if we don't have a gallery we will fall back to the slider.
It's gonna like the video and the audio post formats right.
So let's go and create a file. And let's call it , we have to call it actually content-gallery.
And I think we can also copy maybe the audio. And let's see what we'll have to change. So now we don't have
to get any audios.
So let's remove that. And here we check if $audios is empty but if we need to check that we don't have galleries.
We can check if "! get_post_gallery()", right?
If you don't have galleries get_post_gallery() will return "false". And same thing here.
Here we needed to check that we have audios.
So we checked not empty audios but here we can check if we have galleries, this way. And instead of audio
we have a class called
"gallery". And let's remove this. And now let's see what the get_post_gallery() function will return.
So let's var_dump() the function and see what it will return.
So we have here a string of a large amount of lines. And this string is actually the HTML for the gallery.
So we have the HTML for the gallery displayed here. Let's do an esc_html() to make this clear.
And this is what will be returned from the get_post_gallery() function.
So I mentioned we need to get the images and put them in a slider, so how can we do that when you
already have some markup here that displays thumbnails for the images.
We can, let's remove the esc_html().
We can give the get_post_gallery() an argument which will instead of returning the HTML, it will return
an object containing the images.
So it's the second argument so the first argument is the ID.
So get_the_ID() and then "false" and this will make this function return an object containing the images.
So let's see how this will look like.
And as you can see we have now an array. So let's now do a PRE tags to see this better.
So it's an array and contains a key called "src". And this will contain another array that will contain the
thumbnails for the images, the URLs for the thumbnails.
And then we have another key called "type". And then we have number of "columns" and then we have "ids".
So these are the IDs of the images in the gallery.
So what we will do is we will grab these IDs and loop through them. And then for each ID we will get
the large image for it. And then put them in DIVs and then initialize a Slick Slider on this DIV, right?
So the reason why we did not use these because these are the thumbnails 150x150 as you can see.
And we want to get the large size, so we'll have to use these IDs.
So let's put this in a variable,
$gallery.
And let's grab the IDs in the $gallery.
So now we have a string that will contain the IDs comma separated and we want to convert the string
into array of IDs.
So we can use explode() and we did this before in the footer columns, I think.
So we need to explode() on the "," . So $gallery will contain an array of IDs for the images and in the gallery.
So what I can do is we can write a foreach loop and "foreach( $gallery  as $id )".
And then let's "echo wp_get_attachment_image()".
And we need the current image.
And the "large" size.
So let's remove the PRE tags now.
And let's see now.
And as you can see we have all the images for the gallery.
And the large size also not the thumbnail.
So now let's quickly install Slick Slider in our theme.
We did that in the plugin for the shortcodes already.
So I know we are installing the same package for the theme and a plugin.
And this way we will load the plugin twice.
And that's not a good practice.
But let's for now focus on the post format gallery and maybe later we will see how to avoid loading
a plugin twice.
So let's "npm install slick-carousel --save".
And "npm start" again.
And let's now initialize the Slick Slider on this DIV
"c-post__gallery". So let's copy that and let's a go to source and assets and scss. We have
to import the CSS for the Slick Slider.
So let's do this maybe here.
So "import"
And then up three times and then node_modules and then slick-carousel and slick and then slick.scss.
And let's also go to the jd and the bundle. And let's "import 'slick-carousel'".
I think in the last section in the shortcode section I imported the slick-carousel using the full node_modules path.
And that's not wrong but we can just do that as long as the package inside the node_modules folder,
we can import it like that without typing the all path.
So anyways that's on document ready.
Let's select our gallery
and ".slick". And we can add some options but let's keep it simple for now.
And let's see now.
And as you can see we have our slider.
Of course you can make this look a little better. So let's remove the arrows.
So that's a little better.
We also have an option for adaptive height, so see this extra height here.
So let's do that.
"adaptiveHeight: true".
And now it's a little bit better.
So great we now have a gallery.
And it's looking great.
However we still have a problem that using Gutenberg, galleries are added a little bit differently.
Solet's create new posts with a Gutenberg editor.
And let's call it "gallery". And let's add a Gallery
Let's add some images.
And now if you take a look at the code editor, we don't have shortcodes anymore.
And also if we view the post we won't have a slider here. And that's because now the get_post_gallery()
function will not work for Gutenberg galleries.
It will also work for the old
editor galleries. Now it will return "false".
So we need to figure out a way. Right now we will not be able to get the IDs of the galleries and look
through them. But maybe you can do something just to support the Gutenberg editor.
So let's do that in the next lecture.